RHDEVDOCS-5510: Configuring build runs (#63611)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-understanding-the-status-of-a-build-run.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// builds/configuring-build-runs.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ob-understanding-the-status-of-a-build-run_{context}"]

> = Understand the status of a build run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Understanding the status of a build run
```

A `BuildRun` resource can have different statuses during the image building process. The following table covers the different statuses of a build run:

.Statuses of a build run
[options="header"]
|===

> | Status | Reason | Description

Author: @stevsmit I can chage the column name to `Cause` because the column actually highlights the reason behind the current status.

| `False` | `ClusterBuildStrategyNotFound` | The referenced cluster-scoped strategy was not found in the cluster.

| `False` | `BuildStrategyNotFound` | The referenced namespace-scoped strategy was not found in the cluster.

| `False` | `SetOwnerReferenceFailed` | Setting the `ownerReferences` field from the `BuildRun` resource to the related `TaskRun` resource failed.

| `False` | `TaskRunIsMissing` | The `TaskRun` resource related to the `BuildRun` resource was not found.

| `False` | `TaskRunGenerationFailed` | The generation of a `TaskRun` specification has failed.

| `False` | `MissingParameterValues` | You have not provided any value for some parameters that are defined in the build strategy without any default. You must provide the values for those parameters in the `Build` or the `BuildRun` CR.

| `False` | `RestrictedParametersInUse` | A value for a system parameter was provided, which is not allowed.

| `False` | `UndefinedParameter` | A value for a parameter was provided that is not defined in the build strategy.

> | `False` | `WrongParameterValueType` | A value was provided for a build strategy parameter with the wrong type. For example, the parameter is defined as an array or a string in the build strategy and you must provide a set of values or a direct value accordingly.

Reviewer: Up to you! 
```suggestion
| `False` | `WrongParameterValueType` | A value was provided for a build strategy parameter with the wrong type. For example, if the parameter is defined as an incorrect type of an array or a string in the build strategy, you must provide a set of values or a direct value accordingly.
```

Author: Leaving the content as is because the suggested edits might change the intended meaning.

| `False` | `IncompleteConfigMapValueParameterValues` | A value for a parameter contained a `configMapValue` value where the `name` or the `value` field was empty. You must specify the empty field to point to an existing config map key in your namespace.

| `False` | `IncompleteSecretValueParameterValues` | A value for a parameter contained a `secretValue` value where the `name` or the `value` field was empty. You must specify the empty field to point to an existing secret key in your namespace.

| `False` | `ServiceAccountNotFound` | The referenced service account was not found in the cluster.

| `False` | `BuildRegistrationFailed` | The referenced build in the `BuildRun` resource is in a `Failed` state.

| `False` | `BuildNotFound` | The referenced build in the `BuildRun` resource was not found.

| `False` | `BuildRunCanceled` | The `BuildRun` and related `TaskRun` resources were canceled successfully.

| `False` | `BuildRunNameInvalid` | The defined build run name in the `metadata.name` field is invalid. You must provide a valid label value for the build run name in your `BuildRun` CR.

> | `False` | `BuildRunNoRefOrSpec` | The `BuildRun` resource does not have either the `BuildRef` or `BuildSpec` field defined. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `False` | `BuildRunNoRefOrSpec` | The `BuildRun` resource does not have either the `spec.build.name` or `spec.build.spec` field defined. 
```

> | `False` | `BuildRunAmbiguousBuild` | The defined `BuildRun` resource uses both the `BuildRef` and `BuildSpec` fields. Only one of the parameters is allowed at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `False` | `BuildRunAmbiguousBuild` | The defined `BuildRun` resource uses both the `spec.build.ref` and `spec.build.spec` fields. Only one of the parameters is allowed at a time.
```
Awaiting confirmation.

> | `False` | `BuildRunBuildFieldOverrideForbidden` | The defined `BuildRun` resource uses an override in combination with the `BuildSpec` field, which is not allowed. Use the `BuildSpec` field to directly specify the respective value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `False` | `BuildRunBuildFieldOverrideForbidden` | The defined `spec.build.name` resource uses an override in combination with the `spec.build.spec` field, which is not allowed. Use the `spec.build.spec` field to directly specify the respective value.
```

Author: @apoorvajagtap Do we need to replace `The defined `BuildRun` resource` with `The defined `spec.build.name` resource`? Correct??

Reviewer 2: Yes.

Reviewer 2: @shipsing now that I read `resource` the following would be more appropriate:
~~~
The defined `spec.build.name` field uses an override in combination with the `spec.build.spec` field, which is not allowed. Use the `spec.build.spec` field to directly specify the respective value.
~~~
